So speaking of errors, catching,
that involves errors, right?
So I could do here, somethingRisky and
we'll define that up here.
It might throw, so
you're used to doing something like this.
Now, here's the challenge,
especially if somethingRisky it's
calling into other functions, right?
They might throw an error.
They might also throw a string.
I don't like when strings
are thrown because in some
JavaScript runtimes, you won't get
a stack trace with that string.
And an error can have some
metadata on it like a stack, and
you can use that to render
it nicely somewhere.
So, but you could anything here, right?
Like the whole point of
catching is something
unplanned happened.
It's an exception, it's exceptional.
We didn't think this would happen, right?
So you shouldn't be using try catch
as like a control flow mechanism,
it should be for exceptional things.
Now, here an error is of type any.
So I could go in here and
I could say, Right,
if this is an instance of an error
object like capital E error,
there should be a property
on it called stack.
And TypeScript is not yelling at me here.
So this could work fine and
then somewhere deep in what somethingRisky
calls, someone could throw a string.
Stack is not there anymore and
now in the code that is supposed to
gracefully handle an unexpected failure,
I'm gonna blow up and another unexpected
error is going to happen, so this is bad.
TypeScript 4.0 allows us to do this and
I would advise you always do this.
You can type this argument as an unknown,
so
like any, unknown is a top type,
it can hold any value.
But the difference between unknown and
any, is that with unknown it's on us
to perform some sort of check on it,
right, to narrow that down and to validate
that it is of a specific type before we
can go ahead and reach into it and use it.
So here we could do something like this.
If (err instanceof
Error), we can go ahead and
do this, which is fine.
Right in here it's gonna be this error.
Then we could just like
log the whole thing out.
I mean, I would advise you don't just
like console.log your errors here,
but now we can handle like.
It encourages us to do
the responsible thing here and
at runtime, we have to make sure
this is what we think it is, and
then handle the case where it's something
other than what we thought it would be.
This is really nice and I think it will
help set up some nice guardrails for
many teams for proper error handling,
because mistakes in this area of your
code can lead to loss of information that
makes troubleshooting much much harder.
This is where if you've got Google
Analytics or Bugsnag, something like that
and you just get garbage data or you just
see like people have crashed, but we need
more information like we're not getting
a stack, we don't know what's happening.
A lot of those kinds of problems
can be tied back to making
overly optimistic assumptions
about what was thrown.
And this forces you to sort of deal
with validating that this is what we
expected it to be.
And then even handling the case
where it's something strange,
nice little addition there.
While we're talking about this here,
which is a type guard,
something was added in TypeScript 3.7,
which I feel like is also a big deal,
and it is a way to type
assertions more effectively.
So, before TypeScript 3.7,
We could do something like this.
And let's move this thing that we
just checked, we can return it here.
And we can call this,
and it'll be equivalent.
So we're just simply, we're making
this little user defined type guard,
we've replaced our explicit check
with a call into this function.
But it behaves exactly the same way,
meaning if that condition
is evaluated to be true.
Because we've described the return type of
this function as not just a Boolean but
an indication of whether
the value is of type error.
It's kind of this little place where
compile time type checking and
runtime code execution align, it gives
us the ability to implement this check.
And it can be used to narrow down this
type from an unknown to an error.
So this was our only tool in the toolbox
and as of TypeScript 3.7, we can do this.
Instead of just saying,
I'm returning true or false.
Gotta get my parens.
We're not proud of all the code rewrite,
but this is a good way
to demonstrate this,
I don't advise that you use
this specific code in your app.
But what I do want you to see is
instead of relying on an if/else,
combined with this type guard
that returns a Boolean,
now we're defining a different
kind of type guard where
the thing that the compiler interprets,
right?
Which is these instructions here,
it's not like whatever I return should
be the signal that we listen to,
it's whether I return or
throw that should be observed, right?
So if I throw,
I'm not an instanceof Error,
if I return, you can assume that we
have found an error, which is why we
see this kind of narrowing down here,
just as if I had a conditional, right?
Now I might have this kind of code here
in my test suite, that's where assertions
kind of belong to be honest and, yeah,
I might put this kind of
code in my test suite.
I might have something like, this would
probably be a negative test case.
Because obviously,
you'll either throw here or
you'll log this out, like depending
on what error turns out to be.
But the ability to type assertions
properly is really important, and
the fact that the narrowing actually
works here without a conditional.
The biggest benefit this adds to your
test suite is you no longer have to
cast things or
use that the shibang like the,
forget what it's called,
the non-null assertion operator, right,
where it's kind of like that optional
chaining, but it's an exclamation mark.
So you no longer have to do that, right?
The assertions that you would
have written in your tests,
they can now be typed, such that
the code that you wanted to write
is also the code that
makes the compiler happy.
And this was not the case
until this was added.
Before I move on,
any questions about assertions and errors?
Right, so just to recap,
we got PS expect error,
we have the ability to treat arguments
passed to a catch block as unknown.
Which we have, that's this here, right?
And then we have the ability to
properly type assertion functions.
Those have all been added since
we recorded the last course.
So the question is, with this specific
code I wrote, would this be a good idea?
Wouldn't we simply just rethrow from
this assertIsError if things blew up.
Yes, we would.
And honestly, I would probably be
okay with this in my test suite,
because I like test runners and
assertion libraries that treat
a throne error as a failed assertion.
So, if this is in my test suite and
I get a throw on line 53,
I know something's wrong.
That is a test fail.
I've caught a problem.
Does that make sense?
So, like that's exactly what
I want in my test suite.
But not in my app code for sure.
If this were in app code,
we would be trading one error for another.
So this is more test suite kind of code,
where I just like, I'm not
swallowing any errors here for sure.
If it's the error other than the one
I expected, I get a different error,
that's nice.
I've got like some extra signal there.